From hanselminutes.com. It's Ansul minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists, Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 23. Recorded live
Friday, July 16th, 2010. Support for Hanselman
it's. This provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks to senior dev lead
in the database and modeling
group. Jeff there's that? Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. We're talking
to Jeff . He is
a senior development lead in
the data and modeling group,
and he is working on
entity framework magic unicorn edition.
Thank you, Jeff, for chatting
with me today. No problem,
Scott. Thanks for having me.
What is the real name
I named it magic unicorn,
just because it makes it
easy to search for what,
what is the name of
what we just got released
last year? So we just
released the entity framework feature
CTP for, and this is
not to be confused with
the entity framework for that
shift with.net framework for this
is a set of pre-release
features that we're working on
for a future full version
of the framework or not
a band release, but basically
what it is is, is
a set of additions that
we want to add to
the product in some format.
And we're really looking for
customer feedback on these features
to see if they like
the experiences we're given, and
if they want us to
change the shape of any
of the API APIs or
any of the components so
that we can really get
them right when we ship
them. For real, It seems
like entity framework has to
do a lot of it
has to solve a lot
of problems for a lot
of people. I mean, I
like you, you know, you
have to be like entity,
you have to be enterprise
level and be super powerful
and do giant databases and
complex situations and complex mappings,
but then you also want
it to be as easy
as linked to SQL was
because so many people use
SQL and you want to
make sure that Scott goo
can do a North wind
demo and put a database
together and just a few
minutes. So how do you
deal with those competing ends
if you want to solve
the giant database problem, and
also just do a real,
real simple application? Well, that,
that, that is the challenge.
And, and we do recognize
that there are two really
big focuses that are interested
in this space. And as
you said, one is that
high end enterprise customer that,
you know, wants enterprise scale
wants really large models. You
know, they want all of
the latest and greatest server
features like user defined types
and table valued parameters and,
and that sort of thing.
But there's also a set
of customers who are really
looking for a simple solution
for data access, where they
can get up and running
and be productive right away.
And so what we've done
with our release after the
release of entity framework for,
and visual studio, 2010, we
really decided that, you know,
those were the two, two
focuses we wanted to have
going forward. At least for
this next release was we
are going to be doing
a significant investment and that
higher end customer in terms
of exposing more, more SQL
server functionality through the entity
framework with concepts like, like
user defined types and that
sort of thing. But we
also, you know, want it
to really make the experience
of using the entity framework
and simplifying the data access
layer for, for customers who,
who didn't really need all
those additional complexities in their
face all the time. And
so what we did was
we defined this kind of
productivity theme for the next
release and, and that one
we're really about taking another
look at the API we
had and, and trying to,
to change the story of
yes, a little bit in
that, you know, in the
first release, it really wasn't
about being an object, relational
mapping technology. And by first
release, I mean like.net three,
five SB one when the
entity framework first came out,
you know, we, we really
weren't positioning ourselves as an
ORM that would, you know,
have, have feature parody with
other worms, like, like in
hibernate, it was really about
getting the, the entity data
model kind of concept out
there for the first time.
But as a result, you
know, we saw a lot
of customers were like, Hey,
you know, this thing really
does fit or seems to
fit in that object, relational
mapping technology, where I want
an ORM to help me
build, you know, my data
access layer, but really, you
know, we felt, we felt
pretty far pretty short of,
of actually fulfilling a lot
of those scenarios. And, you
know, we took, we took
a big step forward in
with the release of
, but we realized that
there's still, there's still a
long way to go. You
know, there's still customers who,
you know, want the power
of, of modeling and the
ease of modeling, but they
don't want to have to
go through and, you know,
build up a bunch of
build a model with designers.
They don't want to have
to look at an API
surface and see, you know,
50, 60 API APIs hanging
off of a single class,
just because that class, like
you said, needs to serve
multiple purposes, it needs to
work well in multi-tiered scenarios.
It needs to work well
in the enterprise. It needs
to work well as just
a core query and change
tracking mechanism. But, you know,
not everyone has all of
those concerns. So that really
why we built those, you
know, the DB context and
DB set classes and that
feature CTP for magic magic
unicorn edition. Which, But are
you guys mad when you
saw that? Cause I didn't
tell you I was going
to do that. No, we,
we got, you know, I
think a couple of guys
on the team, you know,
saw your blog posts and
started emailing it around and
in our hallway now we
have a little unicorn horns
on all of our office.
That's awesome because we're all
citizens. When I, what happened
was I was, I played
with it before a while
back. I mean, cause it'd
been, you guys have been
designing this and thinking about
this for, for a while,
you know, you can go
up to the entity framework,
design blog and check it
out. And there's been discussion
about this for, you know,
publicly, even since March, but
I don't think a lot
of people saw that. I
mean, the people who were
really interested in the framework
saw the blog, the blog
posted March about data annotations
and code first had been
talked about for awhile. But
I sat down with actually
with Scott goo a couple
days ago and he was
showing me this in, in
the lobby of one of
the buildings. It like I
kinda was like eight 30
or nine o'clock at night.
It was totally empty. People
were vacuuming and, and Scott
was like, dude, are you
going to see you see
this? Did you check this
out? Cause that's what's so
Scott that's how Scott goo
rolls. Right? He's got like
a laptop. He's like, dude,
did you see this? So
he goes and he's like
public class, this pelletize stack.
And he hits at five
and it's like, well, what
was it? Slow down, slow
down. Where's your connection string.
Where's the database, you know
what happened there? And it
was the first time and
I'm, and I'm being straight
with here, but it was
the first time when I
was like, wow, I'm going
to actually use any framework
for little stuff too, because
I've been using linked to
SQL. Yeah. I know that
there was some link to
SQL stuff. It's a controversy
and people were like, yeah,
entity frameworks, the way going
forward. But you know, people
were still using links SQL
cause it's simple and easy.
And this was the first
time when I felt that
on the, on the ease
of getting started in any
framework, gut got easier. And
I actually was in I'm
at the web camps with
James senior and we did
like a whole bunch of
cities, I think changed it
like 15 cities, worldwide teaching
people how to make websites
and use any framework. And
that jumped that jumping off
point that getting started, make
a database install, SQL express
that was difficult, but being
able to go and just
define your classes and go
for four basic scenarios is
just fantastic. I thought like
I'm gushing, but I was
really impressed. A couple, a
couple of funny points on
that. You know, we've, we've
been working quite a bit
with, with Scott goo on,
you know, the evolution of
this thing and we, we
give them demos every now
and then. And on the
latest one where we showed
him the functionality that we
were going to ship in
this CDP, he was literally
coming across the room, you
know, elbowing the guy who
was giving him the demo
out of the way to
like take the keyboard, to
like play with stuff. It
was, he was really excited
about it. But yeah, that,
that was definitely one of
the big goals was how
do you, how do you
get started quickly and not
getting started experience when, you
know, maybe you don't have
a database and you're just
doing some, some rapid application
development stuff. And you know,
you just write your classes,
you kind of conceptually can
build this model just by
making a new DB context
and saying which classes you're
interested in. Like, and then
you just create the class
and it makes a database
for you. And you know,
if there's a database that
already exists, it will, it
will find that one and
use that. And you know,
the hope was that, you
know, at least, at least
for some customers that that
would, that would really create
an easy experience for building
kind of smaller apps. So
the first thing that some
people that I talked to
said when they saw this
was okay, well, that's cool.
And I could see me
using that for small apps
and for hobbies and stuff,
but I really want, I
like the model. I want
the code first model, but
I really know what I
wanted the database to look
like. So if I, if
I say public class book
and I public this and
public bat and I hit
at five, I'm going to
get a database that you're
gonna auto name, the database,
you'll auto create it. You
can either put it in
SQL server express or stick
it in app data as
a compact edition file. But
what if I know I
want it to look a
certain way, what are the
different ways that I can
take control and set the
database up the way I
want it to look? Yeah.
So there's a couple of
things. So, and we've tried
to layer in complexity so
that you kind of, you
only need to really see
it when, you know, you
need it. And, and when
you want to customize some
of your, your physical artifacts
on, in your database, then,
then you know, you need
some more complexity. So the
first thing you can do
is in the DB context,
there's a constructor. And let's
say, the first thing you
want to do is like,
I don't like the database
name that you're making. Like,
how do I, how do
I choose? And I know
I want my database to
be called this rather than
what the convention comes up
with. So if you and
your DB context, constructor, you
can just pass in the
string of the database name.
And there you can customize
that, that aspect of things.
If you want to get
a little bit farther down
into, okay, I, I want
to customize table names and
column names, or I want
to specify, you know, length
of, of string columns or
byte array columns, and that
sort of thing. You have
a couple of options there
as well. So for, for
table and column names in
the CTP, there's a, a
special method inside the DB
context called on model creating,
which you can override. And
when the DB context, when
the very first instance of
the DB context is created,
we pass in this, the
model builder that it, which
is a new class that
we introduced in the CTP,
which allows you to customize
your model. And you can
do customization in terms of
adding more entities to your
model, or can customize the
experience in that like, Hey,
I don't like the inheritance
hierarchy strategy that you've, you've
chosen by default the code
first component that builds the
model. We'll use TPH a
table, one table in the
database to store the entire
hierarchy. But let's say you
wanted to use like one
table for every type and
your type hierarchy. You can
use the model builder to
customize that and, and get
a different set of, of
tables generated. You can use
the model builder to specify
that you want different properties
to have be, you know,
different maximum lengths, whether you
want them to be fixed
length Unicode. And that's all
done using a fluent style
API on top of the
model builder for, for some,
some common things like setting
maximum length or table name
or column names. Our real
goal ultimately is to allow
you to do that declaratively.
So you don't have to
override that on model creating
event or method. And the
way that we allow you
to do that is through
supporting a bunch of data
annotation attributes. So you, one
of the things in the
feature CTP is that all
of the data annotation attributes
that are in a system
dot component model, that data
annotations things like the key
attribute or required attribute or
concurrency check or timestamp timestamp
attribute. If you put those
on your properties of your
class will recognize that, you
know, your, your intention was
to make like that property
a key for your entity.
And so we'll interpret that
and use that property as
the key. And so what
we did in the CTP
was we not only supported
the annotations that exist today,
but we added, added a
couple new ones. We added
things like we added a
max length attribute so that
you could set the max
length of, of like byte
arrays, because data annotations has
string length, but you can't
really use that on, on
byte arrays. What I thought
was cool about that is
that I complimented you guys
in the blog posts because
I said that I felt
like the Lego pieces that
we are releasing as a
company are getting to be
like the right sizes. Like
it's, I mean, we can
talk about the past in
a, in a, in a
kind of an attractive way
in the past. Microsoft has
a tendency to have groups
that create stuff without realizing
the other groups are creating
similar stuff. And one group
will make a giant Lego
and hit a group. We'll
make a small Lego, and
then I have to make
them fit together. But what
I thought was cool about
this is that you were
using the data annotations that
I was always, I was
already using. Cause they were,
they were used for validation
and data, an asp.net MVC.
And I know that Silverlight
and Rhea services uses data
annotations. So I mean, key
and string length or were
things that required and all
those things I was putting
on my objects already in
my views. And that allowed
me to put in validation
and my asp.net application. So
I could have client side
validation with JavaScript server side
validation in my model, binder
and database validation, all with
the same attributes. So it
was, it was very dry,
you know, don't repeat yourself.
Yeah, absolutely. And you know,
the, the other nice thing
about data annotations is it
they're pretty easy to configure.
I mean, it's pretty straightforward.
What you mean when you
say something is required. And
so, you know, the, the
ones that we've chosen to
add, we tried to keep
in, in the spirit of,
you know, these are simple,
straightforward, little augmentations to, to
your class. And then you
don't, if you don't want
to have to go down
and, and use the fluent
API to configure your model
further, you don't have to.
So some of the annotations
that didn't make it in
the CTP, but we're thinking
about our annotations to be
able to customize table and
column names. So we're going
to add a table name
and a column name attribute.
We're going to add attributes
to say, if you want
to exclude certain things from
your model. So, so there's
a couple of more attributes
that didn't make the CTP
that we know are really
important, but you know, if
anybody's got any great ideas
for once they want to
see, you know, they should
let us know. I really
liked that you had the
opportunity, you have the option
for me to do something
in an attribute and not
an attribute. Like if, if
I have like book, if
I say book ID, you'll
figure that out. That that's
the key automatically. So you
have some convention. So if
I have like a book,
it has an ID and
a title, you'll figure out
that the ID is, is
a key. Or if I
have like book, which has
like ESPN or something, that's
not something where you as
a runtime configure out automatically
that that's a key. I
can Mark it as a
key with an attribute, but
if I don't want to
decorate all of my classes,
I mean, these poco classes,
these plain old CLR classes,
I don't even want to
put attributes on them. And
then I do what you
said with the on-model creating.
And I say, this entity
has this key and it
is ESPN. I, I hope
that you continue with that,
that symmetry. Cause I really
liked the idea to have
the fluent interface, describe stuff
that I could also describe
in, in the classes. Cause
sometimes you can't control where
those classes come from, you
know? Yeah, absolutely. And you
know, our, our real hope
with, you know, with, with
kind of the adding, adding
the layering in of complexity
is that, you know, hopefully
most people, you know, building
small apps can get by
with just the default and
then the DB context constructs.
They can, they can change
the database, the DB context
constructor, or we hope that
through, by using data annotations,
most of the fairly common
mapping and model customization actions,
you'll be able to accomplish
using a data annotation. And
then, you know, if you
need to go a little
bit farther, you know, you,
you have the, the model
builder with the, where you
can kind of get, you
know, full control over, over
what your model looks like.
But yeah, definitely. We want
to want to keep the
layering going and we want
to keep the flexibility in
terms of either attribute or
using the model builder. Hi,
this is Scott. I just
want to remind you guys
that there's no show without
a sponsor going to pay
for all this bandwidth. And
the more popular the show
becomes. The more important is
that we thank our sponsors
folks like Tellerik I wanna
let you guys know that
Tellerik has got a pretty
cool deal going between June 1st, 2010
and August 31st, 2010. Any interested listener,
just send an email to
podcast@telleriktlerik.com mentioned Hansel minutes and
they will reply and they'll
give you a special $50
off coupon code. So just
remember podcast at  dot
com mentioned Hansel minutes, $50
off. It goes until August 31st, 2010
and big thanks again for
the folks at Tellerik for
believing in our show and
for continuing to help pay
for our expenses. It seems
like historically Microsoft developer, not
micro, not working for Microsoft,
but people like me who
were writing code for like
people who aren't working for
Microsoft. When I say Microsoft
developers, aren't used to the
kind of magic that, that
rails and some of the
different frameworks give around conventions.
We, Microsoft employees are used
to magic that is usually
dragon drop magic, or the
designer did it for you
type magic, right. But asp.net
MVC, and then entity framework
and other frameworks that have
been coming out like math
have been introducing convention over
configuration. And I don't think
that we're used, we, the
Microsoft developers aren't used to
that kind of magic, particularly
like with, with this new
code first, there are conventions
where you're looking at the
names of things and automatically
inferring things like relationships. Like
if I have a product
product ID product might have
a property called category and
you're figuring out that I
can move back and forth
between the category class and
the product class, just based
on how the properties are
named. I mean, you're inferring
what the right thing to
do is based on naming.
Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. We, we,
I think, I think you
were right on the money
about how Microsoft developers, typically
aren't used to putting so
much convention into the code
that they write, especially in
the frameworks that we build.
But I think we're seeing
that to get the developer
productivity and the developer experiences
we really want, you know,
that's really a direction we
need to go. And so,
yeah, code first definitely embrace
that. So with relationships we
put in a whole bunch
of conventions around identifying relationship
in versus so, you know,
like you said, if, if
a product has a, a
category property on it, that
points do a category and
a category has a collection
of products in it, we'll,
we'll figure out by convention
that, you know, Hey, those
things are actually, you, you
mean the same relationship when
you, when you're referring to
that thing. And so we'll,
we'll figure out that, you
know, Hey, you didn't mean
to have multiple relationships with
multiple foreign keys backing them
and that sort of thing.
And, and there's also a
bunch of conventions in there
to determine, you know, if
you have a, a relationship
and you really want to
use the, and have a
foreign key as part of
your, your entity, which, which
property on your entity, you
meant to be the foreign
key. And we do that
based on some naming conventions.
Yeah. Like if I have
a book and a book
has an ESPN, another object
might also have a book
maybe like I'd have like
a book review, I'm looking
at your blog post here,
like book review has a,
a, an object called subject
that is the subject of
that review, which is a
type book. So then it
has a subject ISP. And
so you're basically saying like
class name and then primary
key property name. And as
long as those that's named
that way, subject is a
book. The primary key is
ISBM therefore if you name
this subject, ESPN, it'll piddle
in for that. And there's
no extra attributes that need
to be put on. But
if I, if, if the
inference isn't clear or if
I don't want it named
that way, I can just
go back. Like you said,
with the fluent API, just
say it. Yeah, you can,
in that case, you can
use, you either use the
fluent API or we added
a new data annotation attribute
called related to, which is
just a hint to us
to say like, Hey, you
put that up on top
of a navigation property, like,
like products.dot category, and you
can relate that property to
other properties on other classes,
or you can relate that
property to, you know, the
foreign key that that's going
to back it. So you
don't have to go to
the fluent API, but we
provide a way for you
to give us a hint
about, about what you meant
when you wrote that, that
navigation property. But yeah, some
of the conventions we put
in there for, for figuring
out what the, you know,
what the key, what the
foreign key is going to
be, you know, if the
foreign key name matches the
primary key name on the
other side, you know, obviously
we hook that up or
like type name plus plus
the primary key name or
like navigation property. Plus the
type name are a couple
of the conventions we have
for identifying what the, what
the foreign key actually is.
What are, what are some
more advanced ones? Cause sometimes
when people listen to these
kinds of features, they might
say, well, you know what
I'm doing as much too
complex, you know, I have
concurrency checks and I have
the important timestamps that I'm
saving. I'm doing stuff that's
much more complicated than this.
How quickly will people hit
the, hit a wall with
this? And when they do
that, will they have to
switch entirely over to doing
things as an entity framework,
modeling file an EDM X
file, or how far can
I take code first before
I hit some kind of
artificial wall? So our ultimate
goal is that the, the
configurations that you do as
part of code first through
the fluent API have parody
with the entire EDM, that's
usable by the entity framework.
So there shouldn't be anything.
There shouldn't be a wall.
There should be some way
to use the fluent API
to specify, you know, very
complicated inheritance type inter inheritance
mapping strategies. Like if you've
got a table for type,
for a particular, you know,
fragment of your type hierarchy,
but then you want to
switch. And the rest of
the type hierarchy is all
in one table. We want
you to be able to
express that using code first,
because that's something that you
can do with the entity
framework. If you have concurrency
properties or computed properties or
identity properties, you know, those
are all things we want
you to be able to
configure using the model builder.
So the end goal is
to have how parody between
code first configuration and the
things that the entity framework
supports. And I think in
the feature CDP, we're pretty
close to that. There might
be a couple cases like
relationships where you don't have
navigation properties on either side.
That might be one wall
that you hit, but these
are things, you know, we
know about, you know, about
the limitations and we're, we're
gonna continue refining that, that
API on model builder until
you can really do everything
you need to do. You
know, you talked about, you
know, what are some of
the more complicated conventions we've
got in there? Well, I
wouldn't really say that the
conventions we have in there
are, are real complicated. I
mean, they're, they're, they're common
things, but one of the,
you know, one of the
ideas that we have to
kind of make this experience
even better, especially for people
who are like, well, I
have a particular naming strategy
that I have for columns
and it, and it really,
you know, allows me to,
you know, every time I
see a table, I want
to prefix it with TBL
underscore or something like that.
You know, that's not a
convention into the product because
you know, most people probably
don't want that convention. But
one of the things we're
thinking about is we're doing
some, a little bit of
rearchitecting, the internals of code
first, so that, you know,
you can plug in very,
very powerful conventions and kind
of write your own conventions
if you want to do
that. And hopefully, you know,
the goal is to be
able to write those in
a very simple way and,
and plug them in so
that, you know, any model
you create can just use
this convention and kind of
augment the conventions that are
already in there or override
the conventions that are already
in there so that you
can customize naming. Or if
you see a certain, certain
kind of type with your
own data, your own declarative
attribute on it, you can,
we can kind of interpret
that and, and you can
run some of your own
code in there to further
customize the model. So, so
that's not in the feature
CTP, but that's kind of
a direction that we were
thinking about taking the model.
Yeah. I noticed that you
can go and to kind
of set up kind of
a strategy pattern. You can
say, like, there's a, there's
a method called set initializer
on the database. So it'll
basically, it's your strategy for,
what do you do if
the database doesn't exist? What
if the model changes? Do
I want to make a
new database every time I
run? You know, it depends
on whether you're not like
if you're doing some testing,
you might want to automatically
create the database and fill
it with test data. It
seemed to me like you,
you, you include some stuff
you include, let me think
here, create database only if
not exists, right? That's the
kind of the standard strategy
it'll make the database. It
doesn't exist. The database knows
kind of, it knows its
version internally. There's a, a
table that has information, like
a hash about what's going
on. So if the model
changes, you can recreate the
database. So it got me
thinking that I could build
some kind of migrations if
I know, I mean, you
know, a lot, like a
lot like rails. If I
know the version of the
model, I know the virtual
database, I could bring that
forward. I noticed that I,
when I was messing around
with the database internally after
doing code first, and then
I tried to run it,
the system knew that I'd
changed things and was basically
saying, I'm not going to
move forward. Cause I don't
want to destroy your data.
So here's here. And the,
it gave me an error
that said, here are the
things that you can do
to get back kind of
on the righteous path. Yeah,
definitely. Are you showing me
hooks that I could maybe
plug in migrations or what
am I seeing? So this,
this feature, the database initializer
feature was, was really intended
to, to, as you said,
provide that, that interception and
customization hook for when we
go to, you know, check
whether the database is there
or not, you know, do
the scheme as match and
possibly another point for you
to, you know, add more
physical data artifacts to the
database. You could enter in
the feature CTP, you could
take your own migration code
and plug it into that
and build your own database
initially  strategy and put
migrations in there. You know,
really our intention with this
feature and this feature CTP
was to get feedback on,
you know, what kind of
experience do people want? And
what's useful for them in
terms of like runtime database
initialization, because, you know, historically
you see a lot of
migration work, that's pretty tightly
coupled with tooling. And so
with migrations and the entity
framework and code first, you
know, like what's the story
there? You know, what the
story is, is, you know,
from Microsoft, we want a
nice cohesive story. So we
don't have like, you know,
six migration engines out there.
And so what we want
to do is we want
to provide the right hooks
in the runtime so that
if you want to do
a runtime migration, you can,
but that the mechanism that
you can use is something
that, you know, has parody
with the migration solutions we
have with tooling. So that,
you know, you know, one
example, you know, one kind
of like Holy grail kind
of solution that would be
really nice would be, you
know, to, to do a
migration, you know, plan using
using tooling, but then somehow
be able to plug that
in back into the runtime
so that, you know, if
when you deploy your app
that some database initialization code
can run using the common
migration engine and, you know,
do the migration at runtime.
So, you know, really what
we want from this feature
is we want people to
look at it and evaluate
it, tell us, you know,
what else would they want
at runtime in terms of
like schema evolution, database evolution,
that sort of thing. And
then what we're doing is
we're still doing an investigation
of like, you know, how
do we really have a
good set of experiences around
tooling based migrations versus runtime
based migrations? And, you know,
we're, you know, as a
runtime team, entity framework, entity
framework, runtime team, you know,
our, our, we have a
responsibility to kind of give
feedback back to, you know,
the, the migration engine team
to say, like, you know,
there are runtime scenarios that
are interesting and, you know,
here, here are some of
the key features we're going
to need from that to
be able to successfully do
some of these scenarios. So,
so that's something that we're
still working on. It's definitely,
you know, one of our
priorities is to, you know,
make sure we have, you
know, a good story between,
you know, how tooling does
migrations, but then how you
can kind of take those
migration packages and plug them
into, you know, this database
initializer hook or something like
that, to be able to
do them at runtime. So,
yeah, I mean, so one
of the things that we
put in there and then
migrate with not really migrations,
but you said, you know,
we have a, a class
that will actually detect whether
the schema change. So, you
know, if you're building, if
you're building an application and
you, you added a set
of entities and you kind
of ran your application to
see how things were working
well, we'll go ahead and
that very first time, we'll
see, Oh, there's no database
let's create a database for
you. But then let's say
I added a few properties
to, you know, my product
entity, you know, I wanted
to add, you know, an
extended description property. So I'll
add that property. And, and
what we do is at
least in this version of
the CTP, we generate a
hash on the model that
we create. And then we
check to see if that
hash matches what's in the
database right now. And if
the hash doesn't match, then
we either throw an exception
saying, you know, Hey, you
know, your database doesn't match.
You know, we're not quite
sure what to do by
default. So we're going to
throw an exception, but, but
certainly you could write your
own initializer to say like,
Hey, you know, it doesn't
match, you know, run some
custom code that you wrote
to, to fix things up
or Hey, you know, things
don't match. I don't care,
erase the database, put a
new test database up there,
initialize it with a bunch
of data and, you know,
in a way you go.
So that was, that was
one of the, like, you
know, kind of early looks
at some of the things
that some of the experiences
we want to enable. What's
a good way that someone,
if someone already has a
database, but they still want
to use code first, like
they've got an existing database
at work and they liked
that they like this model,
but they don't want, you
know, they, they, they're tired
of seeing examples where they're
always creating their own Oh,
database, Where were the systems
creating the database? Like the
assumption that everyone's making fresh
databases out there. So how
do I do code first?
But honestly I have a
database already. Yeah. So, so
you have a couple options
there. One is, you know,
the, the DB context and
DB set classes don't have
to be used with, with
code first. You don't have
to write code and then
write a bunch of fluent
API mappings. If you find,
if you find that experience
difficult and you do, you
know, you do like the
DB context, DB set kind
of reduced API experience, but
you're okay with using some
tooling, you can build an
EDM X file model using
tools and then pass in
the connection string. That is
just a standard entity framework
connection string into a DB
context. And we'll use that
connection string. So, you know,
one option is create an
EDM X file and a
regular entity framework connection string,
pass that into the DB
context and, and a way
you can go, another option
that you have is it's
a little bit more manual,
but what you can do
is you can just pass
in, like, let's say your
databases and SQL server. You
can just pass it in
your SQL server connection string,
but then you, what you
can do is in your,
you know, your on model,
creating overload in your DB
context, you can put a
configuration logic in there to
say how your classes, how
you want them to be
mapped to the database. So
for example, if your database
has, you know, a special
name for, you know, your
customer table or your database,
like I said, has, you
know, a special arrangement of
tables for your, your inheritance
hierarchies, you know, you can
use all the configuration API
to kind of manually map
between your entities and what's
in the database already. And,
you know, I definitely recognize
that that that particular experience
is, is something that probably
isn't quite where we want
it yet, because it's a
lot of manual work. You
kind of have to really
know what your database schema
looks like, and you have
to really know what your
classes look like. So, you
know, I personally think that
there's probably a good, you
know, solution that, you know,
some, some more magic unicorn
work that, you know, does,
does by default, you know,
mapping for you between classes
and an existing database. And,
and then just allows you
to kind of tweak that.
Or we kind of can
report warnings or something like
that. If there's a mapping
that, that, that we can't
figure out. So I think
there's, there's more work that
we need to do on
the entity framework team around,
you know, what happens when
you want to do code
first, but you already have
a database. Cool. Well, we're
going to make sure that
people have links to the
entity framework, design blog, the
ado.net blogs, and that any
feedback that people have will
get, get to the right
people. I definitely know now
who the right people are
so they can, people can
leave comments. They can email
the author of like the
envy framework, design blog, and
understand. And when people are
paying attention, I mean, I
see you guys wandering around
on, on Twitter and the
blogs answering questions, and I've
seen you comment on my
blog and answer people's questions,
and we'd definitely appreciate it.
That we're getting the Lego
pieces at the right size.
Thank you so much for
coming on the show. Appreciate
it. Hey, well, thanks for
having me. I'm glad you
enjoyed the CTP. Alright. That
was Jeff . And this
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes. We'll see you
again next week.